The EC2 service is one of the most fundamental services offered by AWS.
It underpins many of the other services in AWS.
We've already covered most of the basics of this
service in the Getting Started course,
so we're going to go into a bit more detail into EC2 in this course.
The basic unit in EC2 is the instance.
This is a virtual, not physical, self‑contained computing unit.
Each instance needs software installed on it to run,
and this is available in AWS as an Amazon Machine Image,
or AMI.
AMIs can be a basic Linux or Windows operating system
installation or include other software like a vendor's
application or some open source application.
To give an example,
later in this course we'll use an AMI that comes from the AWS
Marketplace with Linux and Node.js pre‑installed.
You can create your own AMIs with your custom software
installed or launch one from the AWS Marketplace.
You can also create AMIs iteratively by launching an
instance with an Amazon Linux AMI,
then adding your own software and creating an AMI from that.
AMIs are very flexible and versatile in that respect.
AWS provide a separation between the instance's execution environment,
such as the CPUs and memory available to the instance,
and the instance's file storage.
We'll cover this in more detail,
but basically EC2 gives you three options for how your EC2
instance file system will be managed.
The first is instance store volumes.
These are physically connected to the EC2 instance and
act similar to basic hard drives.
They can't be reused for other EC2 instances.
The second option is Elastic Block Storage, shortened to EBS.
The main difference between EBS and instance store volumes is that
EBS volumes can be connected to other instances,
and also can live on even if the instance is terminated.
The third option is Elastic File System, shorted to EFS.
EFS differs from EBS in that it is scalable in size.
Other details such as a separate life cycle from the EC2 instance and
being able to connect to different instances is similar.
When creating an AMI,
you have the option to define an instance
volume‑backed AMI or an EBS‑backed AMI.
Choosing one or the other restricts what states are
available to the created instance.
An EBS‑backed instance can be stopped for an arbitrary period of time.
The instance data will be persisted on the EBS volume.
Contrast this to an instance volume‑backed instance,
which can only be terminated or restarted.
Can't be stopped.
It's a small distinction,
but it can afford quite a bit of flexibility with using EBS volumes.
A larger distinction between the two types of instances is the boot‑up time.
An EBS‑backed instance created from an AMI is significantly
faster to boot than an instance‑backed volume.
The main reason that EBS is faster is that the AMI data for an
instance‑backed volume must be transferred from S3 on boot up,
which is different from EBS.
EBS was introduced by AWS after instance store volumes,
so there are many good reasons to use EBS.
One more important details of AMIs is the visibility of the image,
basically who has permissions to use it.
When creating the AMI, you will need to specify the launch permissions.
Your options are public, which allows anyone to launch an instance from your AMI,
explicit,
which lets you give permission to certain AWS accounts
to create instances from your AMI, and finally,
implicit, which only allows you to create instances from the AMI.
You can also publish AMIs to the AWS Marketplace, but we won't be covering that in this course.